TUTORIAL 1 (C10)
1. Muhammad Irfan Tijanie Bin Mohammad Tasnim - 153309
2. Nur Atasha Binti Nasrul - 152522
3. Nur Afina Binti Mohammad Nadzri - 152843
4. Anis Nabila Binti Mazlan Ros- 153597
TUTORIAL 1 (CST232/W2/CHAPTER1)
1. Can a computer run on more than one operating system (OS) at same time? Explain your
answer.
Ans:
Operating System is a program that controls the execution of application programs and acts
as an interface between the user of a computer and the computer hardware. Most computers
can be configured to run more than one operating system. Windows, macOS, and Linux can
exist on one physical computer. There are two strategies available for installing multiple
operating systems on a single computer.
The first one is Dual (or multiple) boot. We can install two operating system on our hard drive and
each time while booting, we will be asked to choose one of the operating systems to work upon.
On dual boot, device can only be accessed to a single operating system so its performance is
same as that in case of single boot. Next, Virtual machines. In this case, "virtualization" software
is installed as just another program within the parent operating system. The virtualization
program is then used to set up multiple "virtual" computers than run within the main operating
system. Multiple operating systems may be running and accessible at the same time.
YES, 1) DUAL BOOTING need to restart ii) Install multiple OS on the same pc iii) on
different partitioons on hard disk iv) different hard disk
2) virtualization or virtual machine: i) use software to emulate another machine ii) creates
virtual environment for multiple operating systems ii) Each virtual machine can be loaded
with different OS iv) easily switch to another OS (or VM) without restarting pc
2. Show how each of the following operating systems can be used, using common or real life
examples.
a) Batch OS
b) Interactive OS
c) Real time OS
Ans:
a) In the payroll system, the system must handle employees’ salaries, bonuses, deduct
and tax to automate employees’ payroll at the end of a month. In batch operating system,
the computer will be assigned jobs as a whole and in sequence. Example of the jobs is
inputting employees’ rough salary, deducting tax pay cut, or adding a bonus. This data will
be inputted by the payroll department over a period of a month. Jobs that use the same
operation will be grouped into a batch. This will cut the processing time as the computer
doesn’t have to allocate multiple resources for the same operation. The processing will run
continuously even without a human supervisor. The computer will send the output to a
printer to print the payroll.
generate monthly sales report/payroll, print daily transaction, index stored images or
videos, etc
b) Interactive OS allows users to directly interact with the operating system via
command terminal or graphic user interface. Multiple programs can run at the same time
because the computer will share processing power. This operating system can be used in
bus booking systems. The user will input the seat that he wants and the computer will
reserve the seat.
i) answer customer enquiry ii) use microsoft office application ii) upload documents
to server, etc ; customer service call
c) Real-time operating systems are used in time-critical environments where reliability is
critical and the task must be completed before the deadline. In air traffic control, a hard
real-time system is used where if a task can’t be completed before its deadline, or the
systems will be considered to suffer a failure. One of the features of an air traffic control
system is path determining. Failure to determine airplane path in time will result in air traffic
congestion. The system scheduler will assign a deadline based on the priority of the task.
The highest priority task will be allocated more processing power by the computer to
complete the task in time
Bank ATM, online payment, online audio, video streaming, patient monitoring in
hospital especially at the ICU, etc (immediate response)
3. Explain why multiprogramming was introduced in the 1960s and how it was implemented?
Ans:
Back before 1960, there were only single-stream batch processing systems where the jobs
needed to be grouped first then executed one group after another. So, to overcome this slow
speed of processing, multiprogramming was introduced in late 1960 where it can execute
multiple jobs at the same time which basically supported multitasking.
In a multiprogramming system, several jobs are kept in memory at the same time. Initially, all
jobs are in the ready state. One of the ready jobs is selected to execute on the CPU and
changes state from ready to running. Then it will be in a waiting state when making a request
to I/O. Instead of just waiting on the CPU, another ready job is selected to execute on the
CPU. Eventually the I/O request of the first job will be complete and the CPU will be notified
by an interrupt. The cycle will keep going.
Cpu was very fast but the i/o devices were very much slower in speed, this makes the
cpu become idle most of the time when the program needs the services of the i/o
devices. Therefore, the multiprogramming is introduced where many programs are
loaded at one time and sharing the attention of the single cpu.
Implementation: 1) active programming i) each program is allowed to use only a
preset slice of cpu ii) when the time expire, the job was interrupted and another was
allowed to begin execution iii) the interrupted job has to wait until it was allowed to
resume execution later
2) passive programming ; program was serviced in turn, one after the other. When a
program issued a print command, it generated an interrupt requesting the services of
the i/o processor and the cpu was released to begin execution of the next job iii) the
os did not control the interrupt but waited for each job to end an execution sequences
4. Show the steps performed by the operating system managers as they execute a user
instruction to copy a file from one folder to another
Ans:
When a process wants to copy a file, it must use an operating system command to copy the
file. The operating system asks the disk controller to locate the file, and the operating system
saves the filename and disk address information in a file-control block in primary storage.
When a process wants to paste the file it has copied, it uses the operating system command
to paste. The device driver uses the information that the operating system saved in the
file-control block to tell the disk controller the precise address on the disk to paste the
desired file to another folder.
When a process with a file is finished, the operating system then deletes the file-control
block it held for the file.
